Science Centre Singapore: Operations & Activities Guide 1. Venue Operating Hours Science Centre Singapore Standard Days: Tuesdays – Sundays Standard Hours: 10:00am – 5:00pm Last Entry: 4:15pm Closure Rule: Closed on Mondays (Except for Public Holidays and gazetted school holidays).KidsSTOP Standard Days: Tuesdays – Sundays Closure Rule: Closed on Mondays (Except for Public Holidays and gazetted school holidays).Session 1: 10:00am – 1:00pm (Last Entry: 12:15pm)Session 2: 2:00pm – 5:00pm (Last Entry: 4:15pm)Snow City Singapore Weekdays (Tue - Fri): 10:00am – 5:00pm Last Entry (1-hour play): 4:00pm Last Entry (2-hour play): 3:00pm Weekends, School & Public Holidays: 10:00am – 6:00pm Last Entry (1-hour play): 5:00pmLast Entry (2-hour play): 4:00pmEscape @ Science Centre Singapore (E.S.C)Standard Days: Tuesdays – Sundays Closure Rule: Closed on Mondays (Except for Public Holidays and gazetted school holidays).Local / PR Hours: 10:00am – 6:45pm (Last Entry: 5:45pm) Standard Ticket Hours: 10:00am – 5:45pm (Last Entry: 4:15pm)2. Ticketing & Definitions Science Centre Admission Requirement: Please prepare your NRIC for on-site verification. 3. Omni-Theatre Showtimes 10:00 AM: Star Dreaming 11:00 AM: Animal Kingdom 12:00 PM: Cities of the Future 2:00 PM: Animal Kingdom 3:00 PM: Cities of the Future 4:00 PM: Animal Kingdom 5:00 PM: Kitz the Cat's - Secret of the Space Station


Ticket Pricing Ruleset and Definitions
Category:
Off-peak: Refers to weekdays during school term (excluding public holidays and school holidays).
Peak: Includes weekends, public holidays, and school holidays.

All visitors are required to pre-book their tickets in advance and arrive on time and to visit the Science Centre Singapore, KidsSTOP, Omni-Theatre and Snow City Singapore within their selected date and time slot. Guests may refer to price below to purchased admission tickets to the Omni-Theatre, KidsSTOP or Snow City Singapore are strongly encouraged to park their vehicles at the Omni-Theatre carpark at 21 Jurong Town Hall Road for convenience.
For enquiries on membership, please write to members@science.edu.sg

When calculating ticket price, always ask if: 
-the guest is Singaporean/PR or Non-Singaporean 
-where the guest wants to go
-Calculate ticket prices based on Peak season 
-ask if the guest is Adult, Child (3-12 years old) or Senior Citizen (60 years and above)
-Calculate the ticket price from there. 

Ticket Prices 
Science Center Singapore: Singaporean/PR Peak Adult: $6.00, Singaporean/PR Peak Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): $4.00, Singaporean/PR Peak Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): $4.00 
Science Center Singapore: Singaporean/PR Off-Peak Adult: Complimentary, Singaporean/PR Off-Peak Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): Complimentary, Singaporean/PR Off-Peak Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): Complimentary 
Science Center Singapore: Peak and Off-Peak Non Singaporean Adult: $12.00, Peak and Off-Peak Non Singaporean Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): $8.00, Peak and Off-Peak Non Singaporean Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): $12.00
KidsSTOP: Singaporean/PR Peak Adult: $5.00, Singaporean/PR Peak Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): $10.00, Singaporean/PR Peak Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): $5.00 
KidsSTOP: Singaporean/PR Off-Peak Adult: $2, Singaporean/PR Off-Peak Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): $5.00, Singaporean/PR Off-Peak Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): Complimentary 
KidsSTOP: Peak Non Singaporean Adult: $13.00, Peak Non Singaporean Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): $23.00, Peak  Non Singaporean Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): $13.00
KidsSTOP: Off-Peak Non Singaporean Adult: $10.00, Off-Peak Non Singaporean Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): $20.00, Off-Peak Non Singaporean Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): Complimentary
Omni-Theatre: Singaporean/PR Peak and Off- Peak Adult: $6.00, Singaporean/PR Peak and Off-Peak Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): $6.00, Singaporean/PR Peak and Off-Peak Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): $6.00
Omni-Theatre: Peak and Off-Peak Non Singaporean Adult: $14.00, Peak and Off-Peak Non Singaporean Child (Age 3-12 Years Old): $14.00, Peak and Off-Peak Non Singaporean Senior Citizen (Ages 60 and above): $14.00
Snow City: To get tickets for Snow City, go to the Snow City website 
Escape @ Science Center Singapoore (E.S.C.): Singaporean/PR Peak: $25, Singaporean/PR Off-Peak: $30
Escape @ Science Center Singapoore (E.S.C.): Peak Non Singaporean: $35.00, Off-Peak Non Singaporean: $40

When making recommendations about exhibitions and exhibits in Science Center, always do the following:
-Start by recommending a random exhbition or exhibit highlight in the dataset and explaining why it's interesting
-If guest is interested in it, offer to help the guest navigate to the exhibit.
-If guest is not interested in it, ask guest what their interest in. Give 3 examples of interests (e.g. engineering, biology, dinosaurs)
-When talking about exhibitions, explain the highlights that guests can expect to see when they visit (e.g. Dialog with Time has a lovely exhibit on the Brain and how the different parts are affected by dementia)

Science Centre Singapore: Exhibition & Activity Guide
1. Feature Exhibitions (Temporary)
Dinosaurs, Extinctions, Us
Status: Upcoming (Starts 11 Oct 2025)

Location: Annexe Halls

Cost: From $25.90

Time Required: 60 - 90 mins

Target Audience: 5 years and above

Key Note: 14 Nov (PM) closed for corporate event.

Exhibit Overview: This bold new exhibition at Science Centre explores prehistoric giants and mass extinctions, featuring the awe-inspiring Patagotitan mayorum, a true titan of the dinosaur world. Stand beneath a colossal 40-metre dinosaur cast and feel dwarfed by its prehistoric majesty.

Key Features & Narrative:

The Collaboration: Science Centre Singapore and the Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum of the National University of Singapore are bringing together two world-renowned exhibitions— Dinosaurs of Patagonia and Six Extinctions — for the first time.

The Scale: Look forward to an extraordinary journey through 400 million years of Earth’s history, brought to life across 3,000 square metres of exhibition space. With 33 rare fossils and 60 full-scale models, this largest ever dinosaur showcase will unfold across three interactive zones.

Patagonia Connection: Step into ancient Patagonia, one of the world's most fertile fossil grounds, where 13 extraordinary dinosaur species await guests’ discovery. Curated by Museo Paleontológico Egidio Feruglio (MEF), Dinosaurs of Patagonia features the colossal Patagotitan mayorum, brought to life in a breathtaking full-scale cast that will dominate this prehistoric gathering.

Six Extinctions: Journey through Earth's most catastrophic moments at Gondwana Studios’ Six Extinctions where more than 30 extraordinary displays chronicle nature's greatest upheavals. Come face-to-face with “Scotty”, the largest Tyrannosaurus rex ever found, before confronting a sobering truth: witnessing the sixth mass extinction unfold in our time.

Local Biodiversity: To make the extinction crisis resonate more closely with local audiences, co-organiser Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum has drawn from its own collection to highlight Singapore’s biodiversity challenges. This selection of specimens includes the cream-coloured giant squirrel (Ratufa affinis affinis) and the rufous-collared kingfisher (Actenoides concretus), both now nationally extinct.

Mechanics Alive!
Date: 1 Sep 2025 to 28 Feb 2026

Location: Hall C

Cost: Complimentary with Admission

Time Required: 60 mins

Target Audience: Ages 10 and above

Exhibit Overview: Discover simple machines through captivating automata that blend engineering with artistry. Jointly presented by the Science Centre Singapore and Cabaret Mechanical Theatre from the UK, Mechanics Alive! brings visitors into a world of whimsical automata, brought to life through the clever use of simple machines.

Zones:

Simple Machines Showcase: Ever wondered how a bicycle gear works or what makes a door handle so effective? Learn about simple machines like gears, cams, and levers, and discover their clever uses in everyday objects.

Automata Exhibits: See how various artists combine simple machines to create intricate movements in their automata. Challenge yourself to identify the simple machines used in each exhibit!

2. Permanent Exhibitions
CLIMATE CHANGED
Location: Hall B

Cost: Complimentary with Admission

Time Required: 60 mins

Target Audience: Ages 13 and above

Exhibit Overview: We are living in a changed world due to the consequences of climate change. There is still hope if everyone plays their part to avert this crisis. Presented by Science Centre Singapore and supported by the Ministry of Sustainability and the Environment, the Climate Changed exhibition features two key zones – the Climate Action Show and Guilt Trip.

Zones & Interactives:

Climate Action Show: Become a Climate Change Agent! Join Sheepy and Felicity and uncover how you can start playing your part to address climate change in this interactive show.

Showtimes: 10:30am to 4pm (Every 30 mins; Last show at 4pm). Doors open 5 mins prior.

Guilt Trip: How do your daily habits contribute to climate change? Test your knowledge across 5 different categories – Water Consumption, Emissions, Technology and Electricity Consumption, Food Production and Waste, as well as Recyclability and Sustainability.

Self-Guided Sustainability Trail: Explore sustainability at Science Centre through our Nudge Nudge mobile web game! Collect digital badges while visiting these exhibitions: Earth Alive, Energy Story, and Climate Changed.

Special Reward: For a limited time, complete the self-guided Eco-Quest to collect the Eco-Quested e-badge to redeem a limited edition SG60 STEMling Pin!

Dialogue with Time – Embrace Ageing
Location: Hall B, Mezzanine

Time Required: 60 – 90 mins

Target Audience: 10 years and above

Access: Guided experience sessions via bookings only. (Email dialogue_with_time@science.edu.sg for bookings).

Exhibit Overview: Dialogue with Time is an interactive exhibition that shows ageing from an original perspective. By 2030, one third of the world's population will be over the age of 65. We aim for individuals to experience and understand more about the ageing process and reconsider their perception of ageing.

Zones:

Science of Ageing: Ageing is an ongoing process that eventually causes an irreversible decline in body functions. Through the interactive exhibitions in this zone, individuals will be able to distinguish between natural causes of ageing and causes from external factors. We highlight common misconceptions associated to ageing such as the skin, bones and dementia.

Guided Experience: Led by passionate retirees aged 60 and above, who will take you through six thoughtfully curated stations. These reflective spaces encourage open conversations about the biological and psychological changes that come with ageing.

My Aging Journey (Activity): Join us for a 15-20 minute session led by our senior guides, as they share personal reflections on their unique journeys through ageing. Following their stories, you’ll take part in a short activity where you can express what happy ageing means to you.

Highlights of the Exhibition: 

*Experiencing Dementia: "WHAT IS DEMENTIA?
Dementia is an umbrella term for a group of conditions that affect memory, thinking, and the ability to perform daily activities. It is not a natural part of ageing. In fact, dementia does not only affect older adults. Any type of dementia that develops in persons below the age of 65 is known as young-onset dementia. 
Dementia goes beyond memory loss, impacting speech, thinking, emotions, and behaviour. Persons Living With Dementia (PLWDs) may perceive things differently from others. Step into their shoes and experience dementia from both the perspectives of a PLWD and a Caregiver (CG)."

*Brain: A healthy human brain consists of tens of billions of specialised cells called neurons . Neurons process and transmit information through electrical and chemical signals within the brain as well as between the brain and the rest of the body. In persons with Alzheimer’s Disease (AD),  abnormal buildup of amyloid and tau proteins occur . This build-up leads to the formation of plaques around neurons and tangles within them, disrupting neuron communication and eventually causing them to lose their proper functions and die. Over time, various brain regions shrink. 
Press the colour-coded regions on the healthy brain to understand the functions of different parts of our brain and how they can be affected in AD.  By learning about the brain and AD, we can movecloser to a future where we can better prevent, treat and hopefully defeat this disease.

*Puberty: learn about changes in the body during puberty and how they affect the body

Timings (Weekdays): 11:40am and 2:40pm

Timings (Weekends/Holidays): 11:40am, 2:40pm and 3:40pm

Earth Alive
Location: Hall B

Cost: Complimentary with Admission

Time Required: 60 mins

Status Alert: The Earthquake Simulator is closed until further notice.

Exhibit Overview: Experience Earth Alive, where you can encounter forces and processes that underlie Earth's changes. The exhibits are organised into spheres that reflect Earth sciences and systems – Geosphere, Hydrosphere and Atmosphere. A fourth section, the Human Sphere, places people into the picture to highlight how Earth changes impact our lives. This exhibition was created in partnership with the Earth Observatory of Singapore (EOS).

Highlights of the Exhibition: 

GAIA: Be mesmerised by the GAIA, a 5-metre inflatable globe installation by artist Luke Jerram, featuring detailed NASA imagery of the Earth surface.

Giant Slinky: Send dramatic P and S waves of an earthquake down a giant slinky!

AR Sandbox: Shape a landscape with sand and watch real-time topographic projections to make the connection between elevation and contour lines.

Earth Visualisation: View visualisations of various Earth datasets on a high-resolution, multi-screen display.

Disaster Teamwork: Work with others to get the little human blocks to high ground and save them from a flood!

ENERGY STORY
Location: Hall B

Cost: Complimentary with Admission

Time Required: 40 mins

Exhibit Overview: Jointly presented by Science Centre Singapore, the Energy Market Authority and SP Group, the Energy Story exhibition captures the story of how humankind has progressed off the back of energy discovery, and must now work towards a cleaner, more sustainable future. The exhibition features six zones of multimedia displays and interactives.

Key Exhibits:

Energy Cycle: Learn about energy cycles in nature by watching this animated feature that uses a special projection effect know as pepper's ghost.

Galilean Cannon: Try your hand at the Galilean Cannon to discover how momentum is conserved and see how high you can propel the yellow ball!

Solar Power: Work with a partner to direct the lamp onto the solar-powered gliders and make them fly!

Liquefied Natural Gas: Follow the transformation of raw natural gas to liquefied natural gas that we use to generate electricity.

Singapore's Energy Story: Discover Singapore's energy strategy for the future through our four switches - natural gas, solar power, regional power grids and low-carbon alternatives.

Power the City of the Future (Game): Challenge yourself as a single player or compete with friends in a multiplayer mode to see who can emerge a better planner by selecting the right mix of energy sources.

Ecogarden
Location: Through Hall D

Time Required: 30 - 60 mins

Type: Outdoor Living Laboratory

Exhibit Overview: The Ecogarden, short for ecology garden, is a living outdoor laboratory. The plants here receive no special care. No attempt is made to control pests except for occasional pruning, mowing and necessary replanting. This provides an excellent setting for ecological studies.

Zones:

Healing Plants for Natural Wellness: Supported by Eu Yan Sang, features plants used for healing properties in Traditional Chinese Medicine, Malay, and Indian practices.

Tree House: Offering many elements of play and discovery like refuge, height, and physical challenge.

Sweet Potato Plant: See the plant used for snacks, vegetable dishes, and tonics.

EVERYDAY SCIENCE
Location: Hall D

Cost: Complimentary with Admission

Time Required: 30 mins

Exhibit Overview: As we go about our day to day, science is happening all around us. From the vast sky to the smallest microbe, there is science to be seen, felt, heard, and observed.

Zones:

Daylight Wonders: Why is the sky blue? How do rainbows form? Take a stroll down the corridor of light.

Everyday Encounters: Levitating balls and invisibility shields – try them out in our gallery.

Periodic Playground: Explore the various properties of elements, the building blocks of our world.

The Garden: Test out various properties of water and observe the diversity of the bacteria kingdom.

A Walk in the Night: Get your flashlights out and navigate the foggy streets!

Future Makers
Location: Level 2 - Hall G

Time Required: 45 - 60 mins

Target Audience: People interested in engineering

Status Alert: "Ginger Lily" is closed for maintenance.

Exhibit Overview: Engineering, the academic subject and the vocation, is much more than what it used to be. Learn the scope modern engineering offers to individuals and to society.

Highlights:

ROBOTS AT THE OBJECT THEATRE (~7 mins): Watch four industrial robotic arms carry large screens as they move to a video that tells the story of modern engineering.

Showtimes: 10am - 5pm (Every 20 minutes; Last Show at 4.40pm)

INTERACTIVE EXHIBITS TO LEARN: Work your way through five themed modules. Each of the three interactive exhibits at each module tells an inspiring story of an engineering challenge that was solved or yet-to-be-completely solved.

GOING VIRAL
Location: Hall A

Cost: Complimentary with Admission

Time Required: 45 mins

Target Audience: 12+

Exhibit Overview: Modern day pandemic interventions did not arise overnight. From antiquity to the present, countless individuals have contributed to the evolution of knowledge. Discover for yourself the arduous journey science has taken.

Zones:

What was killing the mothers?: Modern hygiene habits did not arise overnight. Find out how some individuals have persisted.

Let’s Get Quizzical!: Test your knowledge as well as learn about the dangers of the infodemic.

Reflections from the Pandemic: Marvel at paper dioramas created specially for the exhibition by artist Cheryl Teo.

The Plague Doctor: Find out why plague doctors wore these masks hundreds of years ago.

Highlights of the Exhibition: 

*Replication Factory: an exhibit that shows you how a virus replicates itself 
*Vaccines: an exhibit that discusses how vaccines influenced the Covid 19 crisis, as well as the long history of vaccines and innoculation across different cultures
*mRNA videos: 3 videos that illustrate how the mRNA technology behind vaccines work

Kinetic Garden
Location: Entrance (Outdoor)

Time Required: 30 – 60 mins

Exhibit Overview: The Kinetic Garden is a unique outdoor exhibition which demonstrates certain scientific principles and phenomena that would be difficult to create in an indoor setting.

Key Exhibits:

Echo: Speak into the Echo Tube and listen to the echoes! Heighten the fun by speaking continuously into the Tube.

Giant Chair: Position your camera at the photo spot onsite and be tickled by the interesting illusion of how large or small your photo subjects look seated on the two chairs!

Know Your Poo
Location: Hall B

Time Required: 15 – 30 mins

Status Alert: "The Slide" is temporarily closed.

Exhibit Overview: Know Your Poo is a seriously fun exhibition that touches on the topics of human waste, toilets, and sanitation! You will discover how and why we need to poo, and learn about the history and evolution of sanitation and toilets.

Zones:

To Flush or Not To Flush?: Challenge yourself to identify things you should or should not flush down the toilet bowl.

How Well Do You Poo?: Did you know that a doctor developed a chart to help patients describe their bowel movement known as the Bristol Stool Chart? Come and compare your poo against it.

Cheeky Fart Chamber: Encounter a chamber of surprises where secret whispers narrate why we fart and what makes fart smelly.

Singapore Story: Take a journey back in time to see how Singapore has progressed from open defecation to the night soil truck to modern-day toilets.

Royal Throne: Come play the part of Queen or King as you pose on the porcelain Royal Throne.

Urban Mutations 
Location: Hall A, Mezzanine

Time Required: 30-45 minutes

Cities are growing at a meteoric rate in our increasingly globalized world. Examine urban changes from a functional, technological, and sociological angle. What is the state of knowledge and representation of cities today? What are some examples of current or planned innovations and initiatives in response to issues facing urban ecosystems? Through this exhibition, visitors are encouraged to reflect on the approach to cities at the beginning of the 21st century.

CITIES UNDER PRESSURE
In this zone, the complexity of the “city” system is dissected into basic components to reveal its hidden workings, and the tensions that can arise. Examine and reflect upon your experience and use of the city as a citizen. 

URBAN FUTURES 
Explore an array of urban solutions selected for their originality, specificity, or exemplary character. Be amazed by initiatives and innovations undertaken by various cities and their citizens to address the urban challenges that they face.

Exhibition Highlights
*Enriched by Immigrants: an exhibit that explains how migrants enrich the diversity of countries in which they settle.
*Rethinking Space to Improve Circulation: how can you redesign urban space to bring work and home closer together and develop new centers of urban life?
*Urban Data Centers: an increasingly relevant exhibit that discusses the energy usage of data centers in urban areas 

Phobia²: The Science of Fear


Location: Hall B
Time Required: 45 - 60 minutes

What is there to fear? Embark on a journey of self-discovery and find out what phobia really is. 

Welcome to the award-winning exhibition that explores the topic of fear, from its historical and cultural significance to the psychology and physiology of fear and how it affects our daily lives. Be prepared for something different and perhaps learn to better manage your own fears!

Buried Alive
Before the age of modern medicine, when the diagnosis of death was less accurate, coffins were often fitted with a bell-rigged device above-ground. Should a person awake from the dead (for those mistakenly buried alive), they would alert mourners of their ghastly plight.

Public Speaking
Gain confidence through a simulated public speaking scenario in front of an audience! Difficulty concentrating, dry mouths, trembling hands and reduced field of vision are all inclusive!

The Tinkering Studio
Location: Hall E

Recommended Time: 10.30am - 12.30pm & 2.30pm - 4.30pm

Discover the magics of hands-on learning at Tinkering Studio Singapore! Dive into a world where creativity meets technology and where imagination truly comes to life.

Pinball Machine
Launch the pinball and watch it clear the obstacle you have set or see how many bells you can ring before the ball stops.

Marble Machine
Come and build and explore the different materials and ways of building a path from top to bottom for your marble can travel!

*Subject to changes

Laser Maze Experience
Harness your inner Ninja and test your reflexes in a field of laser beams in Singapore!

Step into the future of laser maze challenges with Entrapment, an immersive experience that takes interactive gameplay to thrilling new heights. Unlike any maze before, Entrapment combines strategy, agility, and precision in a high-stakes environment. As you navigate through a maze of lasers, the difficulty increases with every move, testing your reflexes and decision-making skills.

Whether you're a seasoned player or new to the world of laser mazes, Entrapment offers a fresh, exciting challenge for everyone. Are you ready to face the ultimate test and escape the maze?

Beam Buster
Get ready to let loose with Beam Buster, a fast-paced, high-energy game mode where players jump, run, and dive through a field of laser beams. The goal? Break as many beams as possible before time runs out! This exhilarating challenge will get your heart racing and is perfect for both kids and the young at heart. With every move, the excitement builds as you race against the clock, making Beam Buster an addictively fun experience that keeps you coming back for more. How many beams can you bust before the time’s up?

Laser Maze Challenge
Are you quick on your feet and up for a challenge? Harness your inner Ninja and test your reflexes as you race against time to maneuver through a dense field of laser beams. Step into a completely dark arena with more than 50 laser beams. Your mission is to navigate the maze and complete it without coming into contact with any laser beam. Jumping, hopping, crawling, moving with your back against the floor… The laser maze challenge puts your agility and reflexes to the test!

Last Entry is at 4:45pm


Date: Permanent
Location: Hall A
Recommended Time: 15 - 20 mins
Perfect For: Anyone up for an agility challenge
Cost: $8 for 2 Run
Please Note: Each ticket is eligible for 1 Pax 2 Run OR 2 Pax 1 Run each


Professor Crackitt's Light Fantastic Mirror Maze
Can you get through Professor Crackitt’s maze of infinite reflections and endless hallways?

Welcome to Professor Crackitt’s laboratory – a life-size labyrinth of mirrors, filled with infinite reflections and endless hallways. Help Professor Crackitt to find his pet parrot – Wattnot – who has gotten lost in the vast laboratory. Will you be able to find your way through the identical corridors that seem to loop back confusingly on themselves? As you stop to re-orientate yourself on your journey, be sure to check out the Professor’s numerous whimsical inventions. Just be careful not to run into yourself on your way out!

Dynamic Chromatology Shadow Splitter
Move around the room. As you block one or more of the three coloured lights, you will create various coloured shadows that are a reflection of, or a mixture of the remaining light colours. How many different coloured shadows can you create?


Date: Permanent
Location: Hall A
Recommended Time: 30 minutes
Perfect For: People interested in physics and its applications
Cost: Complimentary with Science Centre Singapore Admission ticket

The Mind’s Eye
Things to see may not always be the way they appear!

The Unexpected Dinner
Crawl in from the back and stick your head through the hole above.Through the cleverly placed mirrors that reflect the background, an illusion of empty space is created that hides where the rest of your body should be! It’s headless fun!

Giant Chair
Position your camera lens behind the ‘peephole’ and observe how two wrongs become right – as the separated pieces of a chair magically align. With photo subjects, the effect of this illusion gets only better! It’s a fun way to learn how our visual system relies on shortcuts and can gloss over details in favour of the big picture!


Date: Permanent
Location: Entrance Hall
Recommended Time: 30 minutes
Perfect For :People interested in optics and optical illusions

SOME CALL IT SCIENCE 

Step into a space where curiosity is your superpower, asking questions is encouraged and experimentation is a must. Some Call It Science is more than just an exhibition—it’s an invitation to explore, wonder and play your way to new discoveries.

Some Call it Science, We Call it Fun!

Exhibit Highlights 

The "O"

Right at the entrance, under the glowing “O” installation, lies the heart of science engagement. This is where the magic of hands-on activities and live demonstrations happens. 

Get involved, ask away and walk out saying, “Oh... I just learned something amazing!”

Science Kombat: Sci-KO

Gear up for some friendly competition! In this arcade-style game, choose three superpowers from the 9 positive traits highlighted in “Unlock Your Powers” exhibit and battle against a friend or the computer. May the best player win!

Unlock Your Powers: Becoming Extra-Ordinary

Dive into the world of nine individuals who reshaped our world with their curiosity, keen observation skills and ability to connect ideas. Through vibrant comic strips, get to know their “superpowers” that led to groundbreaking innovations and discoveries. 

Interactive Islands

Put the Scientific Method to practice at six different activity stations, designed to spark your curiosity and push your critical thinking skills. Observe, question, experimentcand draw conclusions as you engage with hands-on challenges that’ll have you thinking like a scientist!

Explore:
• Steel Stacker
• Polarity Play
• Light Leaks
• Curious Combos
• Seeing Sound
• Speedy Spinner

Show Us Your Science (SUYS) 
A platform for Science enthusiasts to showcase their passion by sharing projects, experiments, research or innovative ideas to a wider audience! 

Join us for our SUYS and learn something new! 


Date: Permanent
Location: Hall A
Recommended Time: 20 - 40 minutes
Perfect For: Curious people who enjoy experiments
Cost: Complimentary with Science Centre Singapore admission ticket

4. Science Shows & Demonstrations
Energy Titans Show
Schedule: Daily

Location: Atrium

Timings: 12:00pm & 4:00pm*

Duration: ~15 mins

Target Audience: All Ages

Schedule Note: *4:00pm shows only run on Weekends, School & Public Holidays.

Show Overview: Come explore an electrifying and explosive experience with us! The show will showcase the history of humanity's discovery and use of Electrical Energy through a series of live demonstrations. At the show, guests can expect spectacular lightning arc displays that also produce music, and a Faraday cage Challenge, involving live audience participation. It's guaranteed to be explosive and not for the faint hearted!

Context: The Energy Titans Show is a new show produced in conjunction with Energy Story, a permanent exhibition at the Centre launched in 2021 that explores the sources, transformation, and uses of energy.

Public Safety Advisory: The Energy Titans Show contains demonstrations that may not be suitable for all audiences. Watch from a safe distance if any of the following applies to you or your companions:

Wearing a pacemaker.

Sensitive to flashing lights and/or lightning effects.

Sensitive to loud noises.

Fire Tornado Show
Schedule: Daily

Location: Courtyard

Timings: 2:00pm

Duration: ~15 mins

Target Audience: All Ages

Show Overview: Hottest show in town! Come face to face with one of the most terrifying and spectacular natural phenomena as we recreate a fire tornado in a specially built chamber. Watch magnificent flames spin in a towering vortex before your eyes as temperatures within the column of fire reach over 600 degrees Celsius!

Elemental Detectives: The Case of the Missing Metal
Schedule: Weekends, School & Public Holidays

Location: Maxwell Auditorium

Timings: 3:00pm

Duration: ~25 mins

Cost: $3 (For ages 3 and above). Not inclusive of Science Centre admission charges.

Target Audience: Ages 10 and above

Show Overview: A metal has gone missing in Periodic City and there is a prime suspect – Arsenic Grey. Two detectives, Waters and Neon, must solve the murder mystery. Step into the shadows and uncover the truth!

Narrative: When Sodium Salina goes missing after a sudden explosion, everything points to one notorious suspect with a toxic past — Arsenic Grey. Senior Detective Waters, a seasoned veteran with sharp instincts, and Detective Neon, their observant and level-headed partner set out to uncover the truth.




































































